(AAA) Access for Enterprises guide (#36600)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/access_for_enterprises/protecting_sensitive_data.md

---
title: Protecting Sensitive Data
description: Restrict access to telemetry data using Data Access Control.
further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/rbac/data_access"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Data Access Control"

> - link: "/sensitive_data_scanner/"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- link: "/security/sensitive_data_scanner/"
```

*For example, in a healthcare organization, a service may generate routine operational Logs which can be viewed by anyone in the org, alongside HIPAA-protected data that must be restricted. Or in a financial institution, trading data across APM, Logs, and RUM must be restricted to compliance-approved users, while general infrastructure data from the same environment is broadly accessible.*

**Recommended approach:** Use Data Access Control to create restricted datasets based on a classification tag (such as `data_sensitivity:hipaa` or `data_classification:trading`) across the affected telemetry types. Assign access to the Roles or Teams authorized to see that class of data.

## Sensitive Data Scanner

[Sensitive Data Scanner][4] provides an automated safety net for situations where sensitive data appears unpredictably. For example, developers may inadvertently log credit card numbers, email addresses, or social security numbers.

Sensitive Data Scanner is useful as a defense-in-depth measure alongside Data Access Control, especially when you cannot guarantee that sensitive data is tagged consistently at ingestion.

## Standard Data Access Control vs. Strict Mode

> Most enterprises should use **standard Data Access Control**, which applies restrictions progressively: all data is visible by default, and you create restricted datasets to limit access to specific data. This model works well when sensitive data is the exception, not the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use **standard Data Access Control** to apply restrictions progressively: all data is visible by default, and you create restricted datasets to limit access to specific data. This model works well when sensitive data is the exception, not the rule.
```

> For organizations with hard regulatory requirements (for example, defense) or those collaborating with multiple external business partners in the same Datadog tenant, Datadog offers **Data Access Control Strict Mode**. In Strict Mode, data is hidden by default and users can only see data they have been explicitly granted access to. This is a fundamentally different posture: instead of restricting the sensitive subset, you must explicitly allow access to everything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For organizations with hard regulatory requirements (for example, defense) or organizations that collarborate with multiple external business partners in the same Datadog tenant, Datadog offers **Data Access Control Strict Mode**. In Strict Mode, data is hidden by default and users can only see data they have been explicitly granted access to. Instead of restricting the sensitive subset, you must explicitly allow access to everything.
```

> Strict Mode is the exception, not the rule. Most enterprises achieve their compliance requirements with standard Data Access Control and well-structured datasets. Consider Strict Mode only if your regulatory or legal framework demands a default-deny model for telemetry access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strict Mode is the exception, not the rule. Consider Strict Mode only if your regulatory or legal framework demands a default-deny model for telemetry access.
```
